=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

gsm-ussd - Send USSD queries by GSM/UMTS modem

=head1 SYNOPSYS

 gsm-ussd --help|-h|-?
 gsm-ussd [-m <modem>] [-t <timeout>] [-p <pin>] [-d] [-l <logfile>] [<ussd-cmd>...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This script sends a USSD query to a modem, waits for the answer
and displays it. The modem type is detected and any necessary
en-/decoding and error checking is done. 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<< --modem|-m <modem> >>

Sets the device file to use to connect to the modem. Default is
C</dev/ttyUSB1>.

Please note: Depending on your modem's make and model, you might get
B<more than one> serial USB interfaces when connecting the modem! 
For example, the Huawei E160 gets two: C</dev/ttyUSB0> and 
C</dev/ttyUSB1>. The first is for data, commands and state messages
use the second port. 

=item B<< --timeout|-t <timeout_in_secs> >>

The timeout in seconds that the script will wait for an answer after
each command sent to the modem.
Default is B<20> seconds.

=item B<< --pin|-p <PIN> >>

The SIM PIN, if the card ist still locked. This is typically 
the case just after the modem got stuck into your computer.
B<Attention>: The SIM PIN can be seen in the process list as
long as the script is running - use with care on multi user 
systems! B<Attention again>: If you are using a shell with a 
command line history, your SIM PIN will be stored there for a
while in clear.

=item B<--cleartext|-c>

This option causes gsm-ussd to send USSD queries in cleartext, i.e.
without encoding them into a 7bit-packed-hex-string, as is needed
for Huaweis E160* series of UMTS modems. This takes precedence before
any detected modem type. 

=item B<--no-cleartext>

This is the opposite of the previous option: Use encoding, even if the
modem type does not indicate that it is needed. This (obviously) takes
precedence before any detected modem type.

=item B<--help|-h|-?>

Shows the online help.

=back

The following options aren't meant for everyday usage, bus as
diagnostic aids in development or for the pathologically curious.
Please be reminded again that any logs or debugging output will
show your PIN if you're using option C<< --pin <PIN> >>! So use
with care.

=over

=item B<< --logfile|-l <logfilename> >>

Writes the chat between modem and script into the named log file.
Useful to look for unexpected modem answers (or expected modem 
answers that nevertheless weren't handled correctly). 
Clearly more a debugging help than anything else.

=item B<--debug|-d>

Switches debug mode on. The script will then explain its actions 
and their results in high detail. 

=back

=head1 ARGUMENTS

A USSD query is a "phone number" starting with "*" and ending with 
"#" which let's you do interesting things in a GSM network.
By default, if you don't specify any USSD query, C<*100#> will be
used, which causes all GSM network providers known to me to provide
the balance of your prepaid account.

If you enter more than one USSD query, they will be sent in order and
the result of each on its own line.

Please note: USSD queries are different for each provider!

List of interesting things:

=over

=item * German Telecom/D1

=over

=item * B<*100#>

Show prepaid account balance.

=item * B<< *101*I<cashcode># >>

Top up your prepaid account with a "Cashcode" (top up code). Please
note that a cash code consists only of numbers! Dashes in your cash
code are simply used for readability, don't enter them. Use only the
numbers.

=item * B<*135#>

Displays your own phone number.

=back

=item * O2 & Reseller (Tchibo, ...)

=over

=item * B<*100#>

Overview about other USSD-Codes.

=item * B<*101#>

Show prepaid account balance.

=item * B<*102#>

Prepaid account validity.

=item * B<*103*I<topupcode>#>

Topping up your prepaid account. Please note that a top up code consists
of numbery only! Dashes in your top up code are simply used for 
readability - don't enter them. Use only the numbers.

=back

=item * Vodafone/D2

=over

=item * B<*100#>

Show prepaid account balance.

=item B<*102#>

Displays costs of your last connection.

=back

=item * E-Plus & Resellers

=over

=item * B<*100#>

Show prepaid account balance.

=item * B<*104*I<cashcode>#>

Top up your prepaid account with a "Cashcode" (top up code). Please note
that a cash code consists only of numbers! Dashes in your cash code are
simply used for readability, don't enter them. Use only the numbers.

This works for the E-Plus net, not only for the E-Plus provider. So you
can use this USSD query for E-Plus resellers (AldiTalk, Simyo, Blue, ...)
too.

=back

=back 

=head1 EXIT CODE VALUES

C<gsm-ussd(1)> sets its exit code as follows:

=over

=item *

0 - Successful USSD query

=item *

1 - SIM  is locked, PIN needed

=item *

2 -  Wrong PIN given, SIM still locked

=item *

3 - No net registration

=item *

4 - Error ocurred (Timeouts etc.)

=item *

10 - Bug in program. This exit code should never be seen.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Jochen Gruse, L<mailto:jochen@zum-quadrat.de>
